0.74 changelogs (#28775)
microsoft/PowerToys: README.md

Our [prioritized roadmap][roadmap] of features and utilities that the core team is focusing on.

### 0.74 - September 2023 Update

In this release, we focused on stability and improvements.

**Highlights**

>  - Upgraded to Windows App SDK 1.4.1, increasing statability of WinUI3 utilities. Thanks [@dongle-the-gadget](https://github.com/dongle-the-gadget) for kickstarting the upgrade!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Upgraded to Windows App SDK 1.4.1, increasing stability of WinUI3 utilities. Thanks [@dongle-the-gadget](https://github.com/dongle-the-gadget) for kickstarting the upgrade!
```

 - Text Extractor was upgraded to its version 2.0, with a new overlay, table mode and more Quality of Life improvements. Thanks [@TheJoeFin](https://github.com/TheJoeFin)!

>  - Improved FancyZones stability, fixing some layout resets and improving handlign of newly created windows on Windows 11.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Improved FancyZones stability, fixing some layout resets and improving handling of newly created windows on Windows 11.
```

 - Fixed a bug in the Calculator plugin that was causing decimal numbers to be misinterpreted on locales where the dot (`.`) character isn't used as a decimal or digit separator.
 - Improved the Program plugin stability when it fails to load a program's thumbnail at startup.
 - The use of Pinyin for querying some plugins can now be turned on in Settings. Thanks [@ChaseKnowlden](https://github.com/ChaseKnowlden)!
 - Refactored option types for plugin and added number, string and composite types to be used in the future. Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek)!
 - Fixed the entry for searching for Windows updates in the Settings plugin. Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek)!

### Quick Accent

 - The "All languages" character set is now calculated by programmatically querying the characters for every available language. Thanks [@dannysummerlin](https://github.com/dannysummerlin)!
 - Added é to the Norwegian and Swedish languages. Thanks [@Aaron-Junker](https://github.com/Aaron-Junker)!
 - Added a runtime cache to the "All languages" character set, to only calculate accents once per key.

### Registry Preview

>  - Improved focusing issues at startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Fixed focusing issues at startup.
```

### Documentation

 - SECURITY.md was updated from 0.0.2 to 0.0.9. Thanks [@Aaron-Junker](https://github.com/Aaron-Junker)!
 - Improved the README and main development document for clarity and completeness. Thanks [@codeofdusk](https://github.com/codeofdusk) and [@aprilbbrockhoeft](https://github.com/aprilbbrockhoeft)!

### Development

 - Fixed PowerToys Run DateTime plugin tests that were failing depending on locale, so that they can be run correctly on all dev machines.
 - Fixed PowerToys Run System plugin tests that were failing for certain network interfaces, so that they can be run correctly on all dev machines. Thanks [@snickler](https://github.com/snickler)!
 - Fixed a markdown bug on the GitHub /helped command.
 - Switched build pipelines to a new agent pool. Thanks [@DHowett](https://github.com/DHowett)!
 - New .cs files created in Visual Studio get the header added automatically. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!

#### What is being planned for version 0.75

For [v0.75][github-next-release-work], we'll work on the items below:

 - Language selection
 - New utility: Environment Variables Editor

>  - New Settings home page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - New Settings homepage
```

Our [prioritized roadmap][roadmap] of features and utilities that the core team is focusing on.

### 0.74 - September 2023 Update

In this release, we focused on stability and improvements.

> **Highlights**

Author: I've added it, with the disclaimer that there will be breaking changes on 0.75 What do you think?

 - Text Extractor was upgraded to its version 2.0, with a new overlay, table mode and more Quality of Life improvements. Thanks [@TheJoeFin](https://github.com/TheJoeFin)!
 - Improved FancyZones stability, fixing some layout resets and improving handling of newly created windows on Windows 11.
 - Fixed many silent crashes that were reported to Watson and the user's event viewer.

### General

 - Turning animations off in Windows Settings will now also turn them off in PowerToys.
 - Upgraded the Windows App SDK dependency to 1.4.1. Thanks [@dongle-the-gadget](https://github.com/dongle-the-gadget) for the original 1.4.0 upgrade!
 - Show in the thumbnail label and application titles when running as administrator. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!
 - Upgraded the Win UI Community Toolkit dependency to 8.0. Thanks [@niels9001](https://github.com/niels9001)!

### Awake

 - Added down-sampled variants to the application's icon. Thanks [@morriscurtis](https://github.com/morriscurtis)!

### Color Picker

>  - After selecting a new color in the editor, the history will scroll to the top. Thanks [@peerpalo](https://github.com/peerpalo)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - After adding a new color in the editor, the history will the new color into view. Thanks [@peerpalo](https://github.com/peerpalo)!
```

Author: @Jay-o-Way , thanks for the suggestion, but "the history will the new color into view" doesn't make much sense.

Reviewer 2: missed a word - updated

 - Added a runtime cache to the "All languages" character set, to only calculate accents once per key.

### Registry Preview

 - Fixed focusing issues at startup.
 - Improved the data visualization to show data in a similar way to the Windows Registry Editor. Thanks [@dillydylann](https://github.com/dillydylann)!

### Runner

 - Fixed hanging when a bug report was generated from the flyout. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!

### Settings

 - Improved the way the OOBE window reacts to Windows theme change.
 - Fixed an issue that made it impossible to change the "Switch between windows in the current zone" "Next window" shortcut for FancyZones.
 - Fixed a crash when entering a duplicate name for a color in the Color Picker page and improved clean up when cancelling a color edit. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!

### Text Extractor

 - Text Extractor 2.0, with a new overlay, table mode and more Quality of Life improvements. Thanks [@TheJoeFin](https://github.com/TheJoeFin)!

### Documentation

 - SECURITY.md was updated from 0.0.2 to 0.0.9. Thanks [@Aaron-Junker](https://github.com/Aaron-Junker)!

>  - Improved the README and main development document for clarity and completeness. Thanks [@codeofdusk](https://github.com/codeofdusk) and [@aprilbbrockhoeft](https://github.com/aprilbbrockhoeft)!

Reviewer 2: These things aren't actually related to the product.

Author: That's why they're on the documentation section :)

### Development

 - Fixed PowerToys Run DateTime plugin tests that were failing depending on locale, so that they can be run correctly on all dev machines.
 - Fixed PowerToys Run System plugin tests that were failing for certain network interfaces, so that they can be run correctly on all dev machines. Thanks [@snickler](https://github.com/snickler)!
 - Fixed a markdown bug on the GitHub /helped command.

>  - Switched build pipelines to a new agent pool. Thanks [@DHowett](https://github.com/DHowett)!

Reviewer 2: Also, no relation to the product and hardly significant to any user.

Author: And that's why it's under the development section :) 
While not part of the product, this is an open source project, so changes to documentation and development still matter. They're at the bottom of the changelogs.

 - New .cs files created in Visual Studio get the header added automatically. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!

#### What is being planned for version 0.75

For [v0.75][github-next-release-work], we'll work on the items below:

 - Language selection
 - New utility: Environment Variables Editor. Here's a Work in Progress preview:
![Environment Variables Editor WIP](https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys/assets/26118718/f99532a8-5aae-481b-a662-19a95f4aa03d)

 - New Settings homepage. Here's a Work in Progress preview:
![PowerToys Settings Dashboard WIP](https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys/assets/26118718/938a5715-0a9b-4fe9-9e15-adfec92da694)

>  - Modernize and refresh the UX of PowerToys based on WPF. Here's Work in Progress previews for PowerToys Run and Color Picker:

Reviewer 2: "PowerToys" should be "toys" or "modules" (or something like that) because writing it like this means the whole package.

Author: "PowerToys Run" is the name of the utility we are talking about here.

Reviewer 2: ...as is Color Picker

Author: @Jay-o-Way , I've rephrased to `Here's Work in Progress previews for the modules "PowerToys Run" and "Color Picker":`
What do you think? :)

Our [prioritized roadmap][roadmap] of features and utilities that the core team is focusing on.

### 0.74 - September 2023 Update

In this release, we focused on stability and improvements.

**Highlights**

 - Upgraded to Windows App SDK 1.4.1, increasing stability of WinUI3 utilities. Thanks [@dongle-the-gadget](https://github.com/dongle-the-gadget) for starting the upgrade!
 - Text Extractor was upgraded to its version 2.0, with a new overlay, table mode and more Quality of Life improvements. Thanks [@TheJoeFin](https://github.com/TheJoeFin)!
 - Improved FancyZones stability, fixing some layout resets and improving handling of newly created windows on Windows 11.
 - Fixed many silent crashes that were reported to Watson and the user's event viewer.

>  - Fixes and improvements for PowerToys Run plugins. Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek) for the new PowerToys Run plugin settings types! *Attention*: A breaking change is planned for 0.75, in which each plugin has to declare its identifier programmatically so that it can be controlled through GPO. For third-party plugin developers, please check https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys/pull/27468 for more details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - PowerToys Run plugins now can have additional settings types: text, number, combobox and combinations with checkbox.
```

Author: I was thinking this is a bit more hidden, and not very user impacting at this moment, so I wouldn't add it to highlights. Makes sense?

Author: Ended up removing from hightlights. @htcfreek , how about editing the line in PowerToys Run section for more details instead?

Reviewer 3: I am sure we have the details ther. Or not?

Author: You're right, we do 😄

 - Better handled errors when sending telemetry, which were causing reported crashes.
 - Fixed some thumbnails not being shown centered like before the optimization.

### File Locksmith

 - Shows files opened by processes with PID greater than 65535. Thanks [@poke30744](https://github.com/poke30744)!
 - Fixed a GDI object leak in the context menu which would crash Explorer.
 
### Find My Mouse

 - Added new activation methods, including by hotkey. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!

### Hosts File Editor

 - Ignore the default ACME sample entries in the hosts file. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!
 - Improved save error handling and added better error messages. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!
 - Corrected a check for an error when signaling the application to start as administrator.
 - Refactored the context menu. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!
 - Fixed dialogs overlapping the title bar after the upgrade to Windows App SDK 1.4. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!

>  - The move up and move down buttons in the context menu are disabled when filtering. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
Don't need to add this. The regression was caused by the context menu refactoring in this release cycle. Menu items are disabling as expected in 0.73.0.

### Documentation

 - SECURITY.md was updated from 0.0.2 to 0.0.9. Thanks [@Aaron-Junker](https://github.com/Aaron-Junker)!
 - Improved the README and main development document for clarity and completeness. Thanks [@codeofdusk](https://github.com/codeofdusk) and [@aprilbbrockhoeft](https://github.com/aprilbbrockhoeft)!

### Development

 - Fixed PowerToys Run DateTime plugin tests that were failing depending on locale, so that they can be run correctly on all dev machines.
 - Fixed PowerToys Run System plugin tests that were failing for certain network interfaces, so that they can be run correctly on all dev machines. Thanks [@snickler](https://github.com/snickler)!
 - Fixed a markdown bug on the GitHub /helped command.
 - Switched build pipelines to a new agent pool. Thanks [@DHowett](https://github.com/DHowett)!
 - New .cs files created in Visual Studio get the header added automatically. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!

#### What is being planned for version 0.75

For [v0.75][github-next-release-work], we'll work on the items below:

 - Language selection

>  - .NET 8 upgrade

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - .NET 8 upgrade
 - Policy support for managing PowerToys Run plugins.
*Attention*: A breaking change is planned (for 0.75), in which each plugin has to declare its identifier programmatically so that it can be controlled through GPO. For third-party plugin developers, please check https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys/pull/27468 for more details.
```

Reviewer 3: There happend a merge conflict.
